docs: add docs for halo2 optimizations (#321)
kroma-network/tachyon: tachyon/zk/plonk/halo2/optimizations.md

Relevant halo2 code: [permutation product poly].

[permutation product poly]: https://github.com/scroll-tech/halo2/blob/1070391642dd64b2d68b47ec246cba9e35bd3c15/halo2_proofs/src/plonk/permutation/prover.rs#L170-L172

### 1.2. Lazy IFFT for Lookup Argument

Relevant code optimization: [here](https://github.com/kroma-network/tachyon/pull/294/commits/0a9fe9c56c8d7bf9d193c89991003cee3d6a88b9#diff-a66badbb6b9b05ff643f192101f10cd59fe8edc0d9e63583f088859089c4e80fR204-R205).

Relevant halo2 code: [permuted input poly], [permuted table poly] and [lookup product poly].

[permuted input poly]: https://github.com/scroll-tech/halo2/blob/1070391642dd64b2d68b47ec246cba9e35bd3c15/halo2_proofs/src/plonk/lookup/prover.rs#L136-L137
[permuted table poly]: https://github.com/scroll-tech/halo2/blob/1070391642dd64b2d68b47ec246cba9e35bd3c15/halo2_proofs/src/plonk/lookup/prover.rs#L139-L141
[lookup product poly]: https://github.com/scroll-tech/halo2/blob/1070391642dd64b2d68b47ec246cba9e35bd3c15/halo2_proofs/src/plonk/lookup/prover.rs#L291-L293

> ## 2. Maximizing Batch Normalize

Reviewer: ## 2. Batch Normalize

> When committing to multiple polynomials sequentially, the conversion from bucket type to affine point is done for each commitment, which leads to a large number of **expensive** inverse operations. We optimize this inefficiency by "Batch Normalize".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When committing to multiple polynomials sequentially, the conversion from bucket type to affine point is done for each commitment, which leads to a large number of **expensive** inverse operations. We optimize this inefficiency by **"Batch Normalize"**.
```

> To set up **Batch Normalize**, conversions from bucket type to affine point are delayed until all commitments are calculated. Once all calculations are finished, bucket types are converted to affine points at once with [BatchNormalize()](https://github.com/kroma-network/tachyon/blob/522243b7b62b69c552dfa4768d9b7160f9e1694c/tachyon/math/elliptic_curves/short_weierstrass/point_xyzz.h#L113-L159). This reduces the number of required inverse operations to once per sequence.

Reviewer 3: How about "bucket type" to "xyzz point type" (or some like that)?

Relevant commit: [here](https://github.com/kroma-network/tachyon/pull/294/commits/0a9fe9c56c8d7bf9d193c89991003cee3d6a88b9)

### 2.1. Batch Normalize for Permuted Polys

Relevant code optimization: [here](https://github.com/kroma-network/tachyon/pull/294/commits/0a9fe9c56c8d7bf9d193c89991003cee3d6a88b9#diff-a66badbb6b9b05ff643f192101f10cd59fe8edc0d9e63583f088859089c4e80fR150-R165).

Relevant halo2 code: [permuted input poly] and [permuted table poly].

### 2.2. Batch Normalize for Grand Product Polys

Relevant code optimization: [here](https://github.com/kroma-network/tachyon/pull/294/commits/0a9fe9c56c8d7bf9d193c89991003cee3d6a88b9#diff-a66badbb6b9b05ff643f192101f10cd59fe8edc0d9e63583f088859089c4e80fR172-R196).

Relevant halo2 code: [permutation product poly] and [lookup product poly].

> ## 2.3. Full use of batch inverse

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 3. Batch Inverse
```
change following listing numbers as needed

> Inverse operations are costly for elliptic curves. We can reduce the number of inverse operations on multiple points by using [batch inverse](https://github.com/kroma-network/tachyon/blob/48891d59d2d751665cb12bc65267d48450c847df/tachyon/math/base/groups.h#L152-L199), which only requires one inverse operation for all the points included.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Inverse operations are costly for elliptic curves. We can reduce the number of inverse operations on multiple points by using [**Batch Inverse**](https://github.com/kroma-network/tachyon/blob/48891d59d2d751665cb12bc65267d48450c847df/tachyon/math/base/groups.h#L152-L199), which only requires one inverse operation for all the points included.
```

> We fully utilize batch inverse to avoid multiple inverse operations. For example, the original [batch_normalize](https://github.com/zkcrypto/group/blob/0c5b04443b2b24c9a06d50ca890313b641f2a5df/src/lib.rs#L102-L110) inefficiently computed an inverse operation for every point, so we optimized our [BatchNormalize()](https://github.com/kroma-network/tachyon/blob/48891d59d2d751665cb12bc65267d48450c847df/tachyon/math/elliptic_curves/short_weierstrass/point_xyzz.h#L113-L159) to use the batch inverse operation to normalize all the points with a single inverse operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We fully utilize **Batch Inverse** to avoid multiple inverse operations. For example, the original [batch_normalize](https://github.com/zkcrypto/group/blob/0c5b04443b2b24c9a06d50ca890313b641f2a5df/src/lib.rs#L102-L110) inefficiently computed an inverse operation for every point, so we optimized our [BatchNormalize()](https://github.com/kroma-network/tachyon/blob/48891d59d2d751665cb12bc65267d48450c847df/tachyon/math/elliptic_curves/short_weierstrass/point_xyzz.h#L113-L159) to use the batch inverse operation to normalize all the points with a single inverse operation.
```

> ## 3. Optimizing parallel codes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 3. Optimizing parallelization code
```

When having multiple parallelized parts, we can merge them into a single parallelized part for better performance by reducing the number of thread spawns and joins. Here are the list of examples.

| Description           | Tachyon       | Halo2         |
| --------------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| Merge parallelization | [merging 1-t] | [merging 1-h] |
| Use collapse clause   | [merging 2-t] | [merging 2-h] |

[merging 1-t]: https://github.com/kroma-network/tachyon/pull/297/commits/d38013c2a335d75d7934b6c7539d2c9e1a95f504
[merging 1-h]: https://github.com/scroll-tech/halo2/blob/1070391642dd64b2d68b47ec246cba9e35bd3c15/halo2_proofs/src/plonk/evaluation.rs#L300-L715
[merging 2-t]: https://github.com/kroma-network/tachyon/commit/6d6273e2bf9f3f11583835f49099adbaba2b0954
[merging 2-h]: https://github.com/scroll-tech/halo2/blob/1070391642dd64b2d68b47ec246cba9e35bd3c15/halo2_proofs/src/poly/domain.rs#L181-L189

## 4. Optimizing MSM

> We have made several optimizations to the multi-scalar multiplication (MSM) operation. We have implemented the [windowed non-adjacent form (WNAF)](https://github.com/kroma-network/tachyon/blob/655fdff6739c8b197c326aaac19c586c7b503dfd/tachyon/math/elliptic_curves/msm/algorithms/pippenger/pippenger.h#L110-L160) for the scalar multiplication, which is a more efficient way of representing the scalar. We have also optimized the bucket type for the group operations, to use the PointXYZZ type, which is more efficient than the Jacobian type. For the benchmark result for using PointXYZZ type, see [here](https://github.com/kroma-network/tachyon/pull/36#issuecomment-1715653932).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Several optimizations have been made to the multi-scalar multiplication (MSM) operation. For scalar multiplication, we have implemented [windowed non-adjacent form (WNAF)](https://github.com/kroma-network/tachyon/blob/655fdff6739c8b197c326aaac19c586c7b503dfd/tachyon/math/elliptic_curves/msm/algorithms/pippenger/pippenger.h#L110-L160), which is a more efficient way of representing the scalar. For group operations, we have changed the bucket type to the PointXYZZ type, which is more efficient than the Jacobian type. View the benchmark result regarding the change to PointXYZZ type [here](https://github.com/kroma-network/tachyon/pull/36#issuecomment-1715653932).
```

> We have made several optimizations to the multi-scalar multiplication (MSM) operation. We have implemented the [windowed non-adjacent form (WNAF)](https://github.com/kroma-network/tachyon/blob/655fdff6739c8b197c326aaac19c586c7b503dfd/tachyon/math/elliptic_curves/msm/algorithms/pippenger/pippenger.h#L110-L160) for the scalar multiplication, which is a more efficient way of representing the scalar. We have also optimized the bucket type for the group operations, to use the PointXYZZ type, which is more efficient than the Jacobian type. For the benchmark result for using PointXYZZ type, see [here](https://github.com/kroma-network/tachyon/pull/36#issuecomment-1715653932).

Reviewer 2: I think using capital letters would be better.
```suggestion
We have made several optimizations to the Multi-Scalar Multiplication (MSM) operation. We have implemented the [windowed non-adjacent form (WNAF)](https://github.com/kroma-network/tachyon/blob/655fdff6739c8b197c326aaac19c586c7b503dfd/tachyon/math/elliptic_curves/msm/algorithms/pippenger/pippenger.h#L110-L160) for the scalar multiplication, which is a more efficient way of representing the scalar. We have also optimized the bucket type for the group operations, to use the PointXYZZ type, which is more efficient than the Jacobian type. For the benchmark result for using PointXYZZ type, see [here](https://github.com/kroma-network/tachyon/pull/36#issuecomment-1715653932).
```

## 5. Saving heap allocation

> Considering the memory used for the polynomial is typically high, it's also important to reduce the number of memory allocation and reuse the existing allocated memory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Considering the memory used by polynomials is typically high, reducing the number of memory allocations and reusing the existing allocated memory is very important.
```
